Data set for "Bacterial cheating drives the population dynamics of cooperative
antibiotic resistance plasmids" by Eugene A Yurtsev, Hui Xiao Chao, Manoshi S
Datta, Tatiana Artemova, Jeff Gore

Data is inside csv files located inside the subfolder called "data". Blanks
represent missing data values.

The following kinds of data are included:

1. data/Figure1A.csv contains the time traces used to produce Figure 1A

In these experiments, we tracked a few select populations over multiple cycles
in a single environment (fixed ampicillin concentration). After 24 hours of
growth, each culture was diluted into fresh medium. This medium was
supplemented with antibiotic, so the starting antiboitic concentration at each
cycle was at the same value across the different days.

Please read analysis section for more information.

2. Difference maps. 

In these experiments, we grew many bacterial populations over a single cycle in
a variety of environments (different tazobactam, ampicillin concentrations)
from a variety of initial starting conditions (changing both the total initial
cell density and the relative abundance of resistant and sensitive bacteria). 

These experiments were done 3 times.

Please read analysis section for more information.

3. Extracted equilibrium fractions (data/equilibrium_fractions_ampicillin_no_inhibitor.csv, data/equilibrium_fractions_ampicillin_with_tazobactam.csv)

For convenience we are providing the equilibrium fractions that we extracted
from the difference map measurements. For each difference map, we determined
where the difference map intersected the 1:1 line. (We used linear
interpolation between the two points in the difference map that straddle the
1:1 line to determine the equlibrium point.) The results were inspected
visually to make sure that the determined equilibrium point agreed with the
difference map.

The results plotted in Fig 3C and 4C are the mean equilibrium fractions. The
error is the standard error of the mean. 

Analysis
--------

At the end of each cycle, we used a combination of flow cytometry and spectrophotometry to measure the
abundance of the sensitive and resistant cells in each bacterial culture. 

The data that is contained inside the files reports the final abundance of the
two subpopulations on each day. The initial abundance on a given day can be
calculated by taking the final abundance over the previous day and dividing it
by the dilution factor.

To get the data in the csv files, the following processing steps have taken place:
    I. the relative abundances of each population were extracted from raw fcs files using the appropriate gates.
    II. raw plate reader data was corrected for background noise and for plate reader saturation effects.
    III. meta data, plate reader measurements, and relative abundances were merged together into a table which was saved into this csv file.


IPython notebooks and NBViewer
------------------------------

ipynb files are ipython notebook files that contain analysis and/or produce
sample figures using the data in the csv files. The ipython notebooks are
provided simply as convenience to show how to work with some of the data inside
the csv files. These files are not meant to reproduce the figures in the
manuscript.

http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/bitbucket.org/eugene_yurtsev/bacterialcheatingproject/raw/master/sample_plot_equilibrium_fractions.ipynb
http://nbviewer.ipython.org/urls/bitbucket.org/eugene_yurtsev/bacterialcheatingproject/raw/master/Figure1A.ipynb

